# FAQ



1.9.2. TOKEN: What is the use/value of the CAVI utility token?

The CAVI utility token (obtainable either from IEO or from a decentralized or centralized exchange post IEO and more importantly from the PoAI rewards) will fuel the entire proposed project ecosystem including: buying processing or licensing time for box-nodes and client-nodes, direct purchase of physical box nodes as well as future s-box (the software-only box-node) as well as other known financial uses such as staking-like funds locking (guarantee or lending), liquidity providing, etc. the main way of “minting” the CAVI utility token is through providing AI-related processing capabilities for real-life applications and real-life insight generating jobs.

1.9.3. TOKEN: What is the purpose of the coin offering?

There are two main objectives that we aim to achieve: fuel our technical development efforts (later on “our” becomes “DAO”) in order to create a powerful, stable and reliable product ecosystem as well as incentivise the marketing sales and operations. For this we are going to release our utility token that will fuel the entire ecosystem. The utility token is based on BEP-20 network that ensure a PoS-based ecosystem including various DeFi apps and investment options. Also cross chain compatibility including token wrapping is one of our important concerns and objectives.

1.9.4. PoAI: What is PoAI in a nutshell?

The main functionality of the PoAI is to offload distributable AI jobs to the available box-nodes using blockchain technology. This includes the whole process of loading a neural model in a node, receiving a data-shard, generating predictions or inferences and even training a model in a federated ecosystem. Imagine each box-node as a solar power panel that generates electricity to the grid and the grid rewards the owner with cash. In our case the electricity is the AI-power supplied by the box node - AI the “new electricity”. Using highly flexible distributed deep federated learning we are able to offload a wide range of use cases and jobs both in private but more importantly in public fleet environments.

1.9.5. PoAI: How secure is the proposed system?

While the main PoAI capability is that of generating rewards for the participating nodes a secondary and nonetheless important feature is that of ensuring blockchain-based anti-tampering features. Thus, the configuration of each individual box-node as well as job result hashes are recorded in a distributed ledger ensuring that non wrongdoer can tamper with any box configuration - such as disabling an alerting feature - as well as protecting against tampering of historical job results – such as modifying a witness picture or an alert. The practical Byzantine Fault Tolerance (pBFT) approach is used for consensus in order to minimize energy and bandwidth consumption. As a result, the more box-nodes coexist in the ecosystem the more secure the later becomes. Important to note is that we are running on two different blockchains: a private para-chain that is used even in private and VPN blocked environments and a ERC/BEP “on-chain mainnet”. The private para-chain is used to assure the immutability of all ecosystem non-financial transactions such as datasets transfer, job definitions, models, events, node configurations. Each data piece hash, no matter the source of the data, is added to a list of para chain “transactions” together with the signatures of the emitting box-nodes. Distributed off-chain data storages either in box-nodes or client-nodes reference the blocks and hashes in the para-chain in order to ensure that off-chain data storages can be checked for integrity in the private blockchain. Basically each dApp running on the box node blockchain ecosystem will be able to have its own internal database and will have access to the private blockchain API that will ensure its integrity via the network private blockchain. Quick view of the para-chain features & inner workings: Stage 1: Each data transaction, payload, configuration generates a unique hash that is added to the blockchain replicated by each and every box node Stage 2: The blockchain will store high-granularity groups of transactions & ecosystem events while allowing individual dApps to

1.9.6. PoAI: What is the main difference between PoW and PoAI?

The known Proof of Work system, that has the purpose of securing the blockchain both for Bitcoin and Ethereum as well as other alternative blockchains and cryptocurrencies, is basically a “brute-force” approach for “miners” to generate a unique key to secure a new block in the blockchain. Basically the computation does not create any kind of value for a third party and cannot be used to power or employ actions that would generate value. This is basically one of the major flows as well as source of criticism against cryptocurrencies and has been fueling many anti-crypto advocates. The Proof of AI system aims at dramatically changing this paradigm - basically each box-node will be able to act as a real worker producing real valuable results in a decentralized ecosystem based on blockchain. Jobs will be issued both by box-nodes (such as small embedded device box-node that do not have the power to train a complex model and will “ask” another more powerful box to do it) as well as by clients (CAVI). Box-nodes with spare compute power will be able to take the jobs in a round robin manner, execute them and register a reward. Our blockchain based ecosystem includes NFTs in the form of security smart contracts as well as artwork collectible tokens (for collectible tokens see Loyalty Section). Our NFTs, both collectible as well as the utility ones are not based on marketing (or meme-coin) strategies nor are they relying on a FOMO or ponzi-like schemes.

1.9.7. PoAI: All nodes are similarly incentivised as PoW miners in a pool?

Our ecosystem is based on actual end-to-end jobs performed by AI-augmented agents within the PoAI approach. As a result there will be dramatically different rewarding mechanisms for boxes that are constantly working and producing either direct results for the user or remotely accepting and processing deep learning computation. Similarly with the classic pool of miners where each miner is rewarded at the pool-reward level or with the groups of delegators staking for a validation node where each delegator is rewarded based on the staked amount, we will distribute the rewards to all participant nodes in a clear and balanced way.

1.9.8. PoAI: Is PoW a “competition” to the PoAI model?

There are multiple aspects to consider with regard to the so-called aspect of competition. There is the societal contribution of the PoW vs PoAI as well as the financial aspects that have to be considered. First of all we need to define a comparison baseline that will easily capture the societal-related difference between the two models: in proof-of-work setting (Bitcoin, Ethereum 1.0, Litecoin, ETC, a.s.o) the participants to the network (i.e. miners) use special software (often open source) that basically cooperatively (at the pool level) as well as competitively compute with brute force hashes of the data in order to be awarded the creation of a new block based on a certain level of difficulty (the hash must comply to a set of rules). Thus the “miners” consume vast amounts of energy for the sole purpose of inefficiently computing hashes in order to secure the network. As already mentioned in the current whitepaper, in Proof-of-AI the participants - at the latest - provision some of their GPU spare compute power in order to process, train, infer or predict using remote and local data and models - thus creating direct value for the society. Advanced use-cases such as automatic data labeling and custom application development further augment the basic uses. Each PoAI participant box-node produces actual value through the performed jobs while ensuring the PoAI network is secured through pBFT. From the standpoint of purely financial gain, the current “mining” options - particularly ETH 1.0 - at the time of this paper creation November-December 2021, are quite profitable when combined with efficient energy sources. Nevertheless, the updated consensus mechanism Proof-of-Stake - that will replace ETH 1.0 current PoW - uses a more organized and slightly aggregated version of the “miner” in the form of a “validator”. The validator, being itself a far more complex software infrastructure than a classic miner, stakes the participants' funds (individuals that stake their own money) in order to guarantee its work and thus presenting more reliability and trust than classic PoW miners - at the end each individual is rewarded based on the “validator-miner” work. The result is reducing the overall network energy requirements by more than 90%. Thus, in the particular case of Ethereum, the transition from the original PoW system to the new ETH 2.0 energy-efficient Proof-of-Stake approach will basically render obsolete more than 50% of the total miners on the planet scale that generate more than 40% of the total cryptocurrency mining revenues. In this context is it highly unlikely that these huge compute power will be able to efficiently and effectively transition to other coins - mostly to the low profitability margin as well due to the ongoing transition of most crypto ecosystems to PoS consensus mechanism - a system that is technologically sound as well as financially clear and environmentally friendly. At this point it is highly likely that in the next 12-18 months most of these miner fleets, at least for the ETH 1.0, but not limited to, will either liquidate the physical assets and/or migrate to ecosystems where GPU computing can yield passive income - such as our own PoAI ecosystem. A rough estimate of active miners - only for ETH 1.0 - is well above 2M workers.

1.9.9. PoAI: Will there be a limit of all nodes?

PoAI Worker Zones will be defined with specific incentivisation methods based on location and geographical area jobs in order to minimize upload/download time based on MAN and WAN bandwidth. Beside the communication aspects handled by geographical zoning it is important to safely control compute power inflation within the ecosystem. For this matter we will be planning on restricting the total number of regional installable box-nodes for compute power. Nevertheless, if an end-user requires a box-node that is not used as a compute-power provider a different license will be used. Besides limiting the zone size the node licenses for computer-only nodes will gradually increase in order to offer a economically sustainable environment - eg. node licenses bought later on will be more expensive but this will be sustained by the increase of network load.

1.9.10. PoAI: What if there are more boxes than jobs and how balancing and consensus is performed?

The network does not rely on luck on arbitrary choosing of the rewarded box. All the nodes are awarded proportionally to the overall distribution of the remote jobs and overall AI job execution and the only aspect that makes a difference between a box from another is the compute capability - dependent of what features and hardware was purchases - and the reliability of that box - how long and how reliable the box has been running. The parachain PoAI internal consensus mechanism takes into account the following aspects when distributing job-shards (based on data-shards): Validator-like nodes will act as communication proxies for their near-nodes and will communicate with each other in order to maintain the map (directed graph map) Geolocation of the node in relation with other boxes correlates with the bandwidth. We define the concept of Near-nodes as the nodes adjacent with a given node based on bandwidth. Observation: geolocation closeness is correlated with good bandwidth but does not directly imply good bandwidth between two nodes The compute capability of the “near-nodes” Periodic checks with the zone main node (validator like node) can lead to migration

1.9.11. PoAI: How can a miner easily migrate from PoW (various tokens) to PoAI? Currently our box-node software supports CUDA-based tensorial operations and uses the top two well known Deep Learning frameworks - Tensorflow and Pytorch - besides other CPU-based shallow Machine Learning technologies such as Scikit Learn and XGBoost. In the first stage of the Project we will streamline the migration process for the miners that are using Nvidia GPUs and also support CPU-only box-nodes for non-deep learning jobs. The system already supports multi-GPU on the same box-node. We will then continue to invest in the box-node deep learning tensorial framework backend capabilities and compatibility in order to be able to support non-CUDA devices. An important observation is that a box node is able to deliver compute power and process almost any kind of jobs on CPU even though for most operations is suboptimal compared with CUDA.

1.9.12. NFT: What are the on-chain NFT incentives?

While in a classic scenario a customer will receive a discount for volume or time spent as a loyal customer in our case we plan to take this to the next level and make the customer an actual owner of a unique smart contract that is able to generate passive revenue and even has a face value. One of the most important aspects of the PoAI is that the rewards are tied to the owners of blockchain based smart contracts. These smart contracts are unique and minted in the form of non fungible tokens NFT. Each individual NFT has one or even more boxes attached to it and thus is able to generate for its owner rewards based on the jobs and the reliability of the underlying boxes. As mentioned above each individual NFT will also have a piece of unique art attached to it that would uniquely identify the owner as well as allow the owner to sell the NFT in certain exchanges even if the boxes tied to the NFT are no longer valid. In short: the node-associated security NFT can be seen as the node license. Each individual security NFT will have several properties such as max number of nodes, max number of GPUs per node, together with the MAC & IP addresses of the associated nodes.

1.9.13. NFT: Why both coin and NFT?

The utility token (coin) as well as the NFT coexist in the same ecosystem. While the coin is a fungible utility token the NFT are individually and uniquely identifiable (and can be traded as box license). There are two main characteristics of the NFT: (A) uniquely identify a range of boxes and allow all the rewards for those boxes to be distributed to the current owner of the NFT; (B) possess unique art and capability to be transferred on-chain from one-wallet to another or to be sold on certain exchanges. In short each PoAI job will yield a certain amount of utility tokens that will mainly be delivered to the current owner of the NFT associated with the individual box.

1.9.14. NFT: Can security NFT be traded without an already working/existing box(es)?

Yes. The NFTs - especially security NFT - can be freely minted and traded in the open markets even if there is no actual box-node (as box-node software or as full hardware-software stack) associated with the NFT at the minting time or at the marketplace listing time. This way network participants can secure their fleets of licenses even before they own the functional box-node (fully physical or software-only installed). Nevertheless, multiple types of security NFT will be released and only maintainer-NFT will be free for minting: for participants that will act as opportunistic passive network maintainers - those that only provide computer power without any other value added services). The minting process of maintainer NFT will have a gradually increasing pricing mechanism in order to limit the compute power inflation.

1.9.15. NFT: What are the types of security NFT?

As mentioned above we will have multiple types of security-like NFTs that will act as licenses for compute nodes and will reward the owners based on their smart-contract rules. There will be multiple sub-types of security NFT and at this moment there are three main categories: Maintainer NFT: these NFTs will act as licenses for nodes used by opportunistic users that use their boxes just to provide compute power in the network User NFT: these NFTs will be associated with the nodes of end-consumers Partner NFT: will be minted for the network partners that will develop functionalities and/or implement functionalities for end-consumers (who in turn will receive User NFT)

1.9.16. NFT: How can a NFT transfer the ownership of the rewards?

Each individual NFT is minted either as a companion to a box or to a set of boxes - i.e. the licenses. The smart contract rules coded on-chain in each NFT allow that any new owner to be the main beneficiary of the rewards generated by the associated boxes PoAI. The transfer can be done on-chain wallet-to-wallet transfer or from a sale in a centralized or decentralized exchange. Note that multiple security smart contracts can transfer rewarded utility tokens to the same wallet address.

1.9.17. NFT: Who receives the NFT generated crypto coins rewards?

While each NFT sends the associated box PoAI rewards in the form of a certain amount of utility tokens for its owner - even in the case the owner of the NFT is different from the owner of the boxes - a certain amount of the rewards are distributed also towards the maintainers of the box. So basically, even if the NFT changes ownership and the box stays with the previous owner, the PoAI rewards for the maintainers will still be distributed to them. Maintainers are both the account manager that sold/delivered the box as well as the technicians that offer the box support. This incentivisation approach encourages all parties to support a good functioning and continuous availability of the box. Remember: if the box stops working the NFT smart contract will have no rewards to deliver to anyone, again if the box works just 12/24 then the associated NFT will generate a small portion of the potential revenues.

1.9.18. NFT: What are the two categories of non fungible tokens?

The non fungible tokens are actually divided into two categories: one is a main security token and the other type is a classic NFT minted and directly exchangeable on known exchanges and marketplaces. As already stated the main non fungible token acts directly as a security smart contract: Security tokens are essentially digital, liquid contracts for fractions of any asset that already has value, like real estate, a car, or corporate stock. In our case the main NFTs - i.e. security tokens are tied to a box or a fraction of a fleet of boxes. On the other hand the normal NFTs are created by the company in cooperation with artists as well as using AI generative artwork and rewarded directly for coders, maintainers or even important external stakeholders such as early adopters. The second category of NFT are classic artwork non fungible tokens that have associated put-option mechanics although they do not include any special features such as passive income generation. The put-option like mechanics (the right to sell back to the GTS the owned NFT after a certain anniversary at a given price) are not available for security smart contracts. While the collectible NFTs will be released initially in the roadmap as incentivisation mechanics mainly for the team but also for early adopters, the security smart contracts NFTs will be released later in the roadmap. More about collectible NFTs including the quick roadmap of this initial stage in the Loyalty Tokens section.

1.9.19. PoAI: Can you give me some examples of PoAI?

There are a multitude of use cases as well as jobs that can fully rely on the PoAI approach such as: delivering a custom use-case model retraining job from on device to another device in the decentralized network and performing it with Federated Learning techniques, process non-real time jobs such as movie-file analysis for various purposes (blurring, automatic annotating), performing near-real-time inference or prediction for low-bandwidth scenarios such as predictive analytics - time series for example. Many other use cases are currently on the roadmap. For a more concrete example let's have the following case described as a process: Day #1 a customer buys a box and registers it and receives a security smart contract that can be uniquely identified via an address as well as unique NFT design. Depending on the bought hardware/features a number of minimum N running days is established. Day #1 to Day #N - the box node performs default jobs while it also receives remote tasks for the spare compute capacity. The owner of the security smart contract (the NFT) is able to inspect the locked accumulated utility tokens. Day #N - from this day forward both the owner of the NFT as well as the maintainers will be able to receive utility tokens directly into their individual wallets that can be further exchanged via decentralized exchanges swap mechanisms for tokens freely tradable on any exchange. We plan to accelerate the listing of the utility token on the major centralized exchanges so that anyone can buy and sell them and convert to fiat currency. Day #... the owner of the box sells the NFT to another owner for a premium while still using the box-node. At this point all the ownership based rewards will be redeemable by the new NFT owner while the maintainers will continue to receive their own shares - all this if the box-node is properly functioning.

1.9.20. TOKEN: How a non crypto savvy customer is going to be incentivised?

One of the main reasons for the pairing of the utility token with the NFT is the actual simplicity of the system. The methodologies, approaches and the usage is simple and straightforward. Nevertheless, according to independent market research companies total global ownership and savviness in cryptocurrencies is currently over 4% of global population. Below some demographics based on 2021 stats: Top Countries India (100 million) USA (27 million) Nigeria (13 million) Vietnam (5.9 million) United Kingdom (3.3 million) Owners Demographics 79% male, 21% female 58% are aged under 34 82% have a Bachelor’s degree or higher 36% have an annual income over US$100k

1.9.21. PoAI: What about private networks?

For the particular case of an enterprise that has all its boxes working in a closed private network there will be no method of sharing any spare resources with the external environment and executing any AI jobs with the available compute power. For this particular case the enterprise will still fully benefit from two major features: blockchain based security and anti-tampering mechanisms as well as private distributed federated deep learning and inference. In short the decentralized network of boxes will protect each and all boxes from tampering (configuration and alert/event tampering) as well as re-distribute jobs from overloaded nodes to nodes with higher compute availability while respecting bandwidth restrictions. Aside from this built-in private blockchain features the enterprise users will receive a certain number of NFTs. Although these NFTs will not be able to generate utility tokens for the consumers they will still generate reward tokens for the maintainers while having the same properties as all the other NFTs: uniques and ownership transferring. IMPORTANT: For the particular case of private networks and one or multiple boxes running within a private network the accompany NFT will communicate with the “connected” box-nodes through a proxy app enabled by the private network owner on the infrastructure border - if the app is not allowed to proxy the usage-only data between the private network and the on-chain NFT then no rewards will be distributed to the owner as well as to the maintainers.

1.9.22. TODO: PoAI/Security: Can private entities such as banks migrate and use public nodes safely?

Yes. We will actively promote this.

1.9.23. Client/UI: How can I control what jobs and what is going on in my fleet of boxes?

While the distribution and execution of the jobs and the resulting PoAI is based on the underlying blockchain the actual control and supervision can be done in a centralized-like manner via the CAVI interface. The CAVI suite of apps allow both the configuration, direct and indirect management of each and all boxes while acting as nodes in the blockchain and review-ing the statuses of the jobs as well as generated rewards.

1.9.24. Authomony/DAO: What other uses has the coin?

One of the main purposes of the utility token is to fuel further research and development of the compute box-nodes, client CAVI nodes as well as other applications and APIs within the ecosystems. A clear direction of improvement will be the release of software boxes that can be deployed as software nodes on any hardware even if they do not have direct streams and enabled features and act just as remote job offloading nodes.

1.9.25. Authomony/DAO: How will the decentralized network and projects evolve?

The project roadmap contains clear plans of releasing a software only box-node that will enable any willing distributed network participants to deploy their own capabilities or just provide PoAI capabilities. This specific step in the project roadmap will enable a new perspective of decentralized AI application development allowing execution of various jobs: from simple pre-made AI models that can be easily configured by non data scientists for various purposes up to complex custom-made deep learning models created by AI teams and distributedly executed in the network. Here are a few examples: Passive Compute - User A: passive network maintainer: User A has a powerful computer and good net connection A downloads the node and registers the node in the grid A receives income as long as the node is online Analytics use-case provider- User B: small project developer - demand forecasting B downloads the node and registers B connects local database to node B configures (no data science skills) the forecasting ML engine B sends train and prediction jobs in network B pays gas fees much smaller than major Cloud apps require for this job Data provider - passive - User D1: small/medium user/maintainer: D1 uses the box (sw and/or hw) for direct benefits - e.g. detecting personnel that do not comply to safety and health regulations D1 consumes computer power at maximum of device capability thus does not generate compute in the grid D1 generates data based on the usage of the system - e.g. pictures of personnel that does not use safety gear and/or medical face mask D1 contributes to the network with the pictures allowing other similar use-cases to improve themselves and receives reward. The whole security and safety of the data is automatically handled as the actual end-user does not interact with the datasets OBS: basically this active participant is similar to the passive except the fact that it is willing to participate with their own data to the ecosystem improvement and uses the box for use-cases that can be employed by other passive/active participants. Data provided - active: User D2: small/medium user/maintainer: D2 can be a user that does not use the box-node and the ecosystem for own needs D2 is able to allocate time and use human power to annotate datasets using the provided box-node and client-node D2 must stake some of the own funds to guarantee the quality of the data. This way bad practices - labeling randomly the observation, etc - used in various systems (such as Mechanical Turk) are avoided D2 jobs are peer-evaluated by other participants or by automated scripts that are already pre-trained for the given task and can verify if the labeling is off/random. If job is approved the stake will be released to D2 together with the rewards for the job Enterprise provider - User C: large project developer - complex system C downloads the node and registers Using more advanced skills the user develops a series of features for end-customers (existing of future) on top of the node C pays starting jobs gas fees and the node starts C customers use the services either on monthly fees or on-demand C receives generate revenue (CAVI) similar to a classic business but without requiring: specialized growing hw infrastructure, cloud provider dependency, proprietary frameworks, much lower marketing and internationalization costs and barriers

1.9.26. Warranty/QoS: How about QoS and warranties when the Project will be fully decentralized?

As with other decentralized autonomous or semi-autonomous organizations and projects, the Project will require that all active participants in the network (except passive nodes) stake their participation according to the provided services. Staking means basically putting financial collateral when trying to provide services in the network. Using the previous example with the three different types of active participants in the network - the small analytics use-case provider, the data provider and the enterprise solution provider - each individual participant to the network will have to stake some of their own existing tokens in order to be able to apply for a job. In the unfortunate case of bad performance as well as in the more unfortunate event of bad behavior the staked funds will be permanently taken from the participant and other measures - such as temporary ban or permanent ban - could be issued. This approach will ensure that all participants take a portion of the risk - directly proportional to the use-case and job they are doing - and the end-beneficiaries are covered by some kind of insurance/warranty for the services they are receiving.

1.9.27. Aside from staking collateral, are there other methods of QA?

Aside from the collateral staking that network service providers have to set aside as guarantee for the quality of services rendered to the beneficiaries network participants, a peer-to-peer review system will ensure that a proposed service provider is also reviewed by already trusted network providers as well as beneficiaries in order to ensure feasibility of services, security of the approaches and other technical and usability aspects.

1.9.28. Blockchain: Difference between private box fleet vs public boxes?

As mentioned the system relies on two blockchains - a private one and a public one. The private one enables anti-tampering features for the boxes as well as job distribution and allows private and closed enterprises to deploy fleets of boxes and benefit from the full features. The public network enables distribution of jobs and the resulting PoAI and rewards at large scale via the NFT smart contracts and the utility token.

1.9.29. Network: How do you deal with low network bandwidths?

Low bandwidth or high latency is a real issue for a lot of projects that tackle areas such as IoT, AI and blockchain. Our PoAI based blockchain allows the distribution of the jobs depending on the peer-to-peer bandwidth capabilities as well as the latency. Aside from using optimized peer-to-peer bandwidth balancing the system employs AI-based encryption and compression methods ensuring that no large amounts of data are transferred unless explicitly required.

1.9.30. Security: Can you rig/hack the system?

One of the basic features of the 1st private blockchain is that it does not allow tampering with various aspects at the box-node level or at the CAVI client-node level. Each configuration update as well as each alert is recorded in the private distributed blockchain ledger rendering practically impossible the hacking of the data.

1.9.31. AI/Security: How secure is the PoAI?

The network of boxes, no matter if we are discussing a private fleet or the global public network, is secured via two different blockchains. Aside from this for training AI models or even inference jobs we are either using end-to-end encryption or Federated Learning methods such as homomorphic encryption that does not require the reconstruction of original data. All scenarios, use cases and each individual job has very strict approaches with respect to private and confidential data obfuscation. No personal data can be reconstructed or traced back to original observations. Basically in the case of distributed training using highly confidential data we have the following general steps that ensure no confidential data is distributed and no model intrinsic information can be used in order to decrypt or understand the data: The “client” participant box-node will both compress and encrypt without the possibility of reconstruction the data with a pre-trained generic private model. For this purpose a database of pre-trained domain specific model is available to provide specific deep encoder models that perform homomorphic encryption while dramatically reducing the dimensionality of required data. Example: a special safety detector might require a model being trained on images of cars that have to comply with specific regulations (such as having specific tire chains in winter time). In this case a distributor box-node will encode using domain encoder high-definition images that have more than 5MB of data with a minimum of \~0.3MB in JPEG format to a 0.002MB - that is just 2048 bytes from the initial size of more than 6,000,000 bytes. Each nearby participant box-node will receive a shard of the efficiently compressed and encrypted data and will train a “homomorphic model” directly on this data. Think of it as a “public model” than can work with public keys (and public data) without knowing the private information. Example continued from previous step: After each model receives their shard - a small piece of the homomorphically encoded and compressed data - the local public model will be optimized using both the labels (obfuscated as simple numbers) and the encrypted observations. All resulting “public models” will be combined in a “aggregated public model” that will be “plugged” in a private model thus creating the final working end-to-end model The whole ecosystem is written in Python and is fully available for auditing purposes.

1.9.32. AI: What is the difference between node jobs and behaviors?

Each box including the future software-only box is able to perform two different kinds of jobs, that is the normal job of running an AI model on a given set of observations and the more complex job of taking a model and further tuning and improving the model based on local or remote collected information. In both scenarios the box requires two things: the Deep Learning model and the data to be used with the model either for prediction/inference or for improvement of the model through training. As such there are several approaches for running the proposed scenarios such as: (i) improving a remote model with local data without sending data to another box-node; (ii) improving a remote node via remote data where the box-node that does the job receives both the data and the model; (iii) running inference or prediction jobs with local model on data received from remote nodes; (iv) inferring/predicting insights with remote models on remote data. With respect to the data or the models there are no restrictions on the application domain: a box that is currently enabled for multiple AI video security and safety features can receive jobs for predictive analytics such as time-series prediction and vice versa. Employing homomorphic encryption and other data and model security approaches can be done in any of the above scenarios.

1.9.33. AI: How does the system work in terms of Federated Learning?

The network and the overall ecosystem works with two types of nodes: the box-nodes for local and remote job processing as well as the CAVI client-nodes. In terms of scenarios the ecosystem can support both fully decentralized distributed Federated Learning jobs as well as central node based jobs where both a box-node or a CAVI client-node can act as a central aggregation node.

1.9.34. Smart Cities: how about them? The foundation of this project resides in the years of work and experience of our team in the areas of safety, security and predictive analytics based on AI. It is also a fact that we are adding blockchain technology and decentralization ecosystem to an already working environment based on embedded devices running AI/Deep Learning based algorithms. One of the main range of already existing features address safety and security scenarios based on CCTV video streams and more. In Smart City environments our project can achieve two different important objectives: AI use cases and citizen participation both financial and technologically. AI features include optimized and green deployment of a grid of AI powered devices that would enable features like road safety, children areas security and safety, traffic and network balancing forecasting. Citizen participation is probably an even more important aspect: allow Smart City citizens to participate in the distributed grid of AI devices and reward them in the decentralized financial ecosystem. In short the Project will allow the address the following Smart City aspects: Build-in safety and security capabilities, based on a track-record of past projects and experience in the field, will enable deploying a decentralized grid of blockchain secured box-nodes that will be able to acquire classic CCTV signals as well as process other sources of data for various use-cases. Crowd funding the Smart City deployment through citizen participation. The Project will allow citizens to acquire box-nodes and put them to work in the decentralized Smart City grid of box-nodes. Thus, each participant will be able to get rewards from the system and the municipality will be able to crowdsource the project. Basically each participating citizen will be a shareholder of the municipality’s project. Connect, re-invest, finance through the decentralized financial system. Connecting the municipality project to the grid as well as cooperating with other similar smart city projects through sharing of knowledge and methodology will reap decentralized distributed workload for the municipality. The municipality will be able to use the generated tokens to re-invest in extending their own system or in other projects or just use the extra generated revenues in deposits, staking for providing PoS collateral to protocol consensus validator nodes or other methods that will yield annual revenue such as providing liquidity to decentralized exchanges that offer CAVI token swapping.

1.9.35. Decentralization/DAO: What is the partner network?

API framework platforms, databases, management information systems and most complex systems and software platforms rely on implementation partners and the underlying distribution and deployment network. From the pre-blockchain era our system has been developed with distribution and implementation partnership flexible scaling in mind. Minimization of adaptation/integration efforts, configuration and deployment without the need of expensive know-how such as Data Science or Deep Learning, simplicity of workflows - all these have been on our product roadmaps . Nevertheless, the introduction of the blockchain based decentralized ecosystem has a new set of features and options in store for our partner. Critical aspects such as ownership, reliability or internationalization strategy now have a new perspective. With the maturation of the decentralized network partners will be able to rely on each other rather than rely solely on a central technology provider while working in an international business environment rather than a local or regional area.

1.9.36. Decentralization/DAO: More about decentralized governance? New projects, services or providers will be chosen, validated and guaranteed using the CAVI governance token staking. New network/community participants will be able to invest in tokens and stake their tokens in order to prove their commitment towards servicing existing end-users organizations or individuals within the system. Ecosystem modifications and updates will be possible based on the fact that the whole system will be open-source and any able, good willing participant can stake and propose their own modifications. Any kind of new endeavors that can be technologically implemented in the ecosystem will be possible such as “non-core” projects and services.

1.9.37. AI/Decentralization: How about non-core projects that can be implemented by network participants? While the core features of the box-nodes are in the area of AI based safety as well as predictive analytics there are other projects that can use (a) decentralized AI/ML/DL infrastructure for deployment, processing, learning, etc, (b) incentivization mechanics. One such relevant and important area is that of blockchain based games where the project team will be able to use the proposed infrastructure for decentralized backend ecosystem while focusing on front-end aspects. Moreso, we will be encouraging network partners to provide frameworks that will use the existing box-node backends and provide metaverse API where AI-based entities can grow and evolve in the decentralized network for box-nodes (though no Skynet allowed!).

The AI Society Game: A simple example of non-core new service/project within the ecosystem can be presented in the following steps. Note that this is just for example purposes and does not represent an actual step in our planned roadmap as the gaming industry is not in the focus of DeCAVI founders however other partners can pivot/use this idea. New network participant ACME Ltd. wants to launch a new AI-based game. In this game each consumer-user has one or more in-game avatars that are freely and un-scripted interacting and evolving - all based on AI training, reinforcement learning and a minimal set of “governance” rules. ACME Ltd. develops the UI front-end of the game (iOs and Android) while working with the DeCAVI framework and constructs the avatar-deployment system where each avatar is an independent model that “lives” in the DeCAVI ecosystem. Basically the avatar continuously trains itself and interacts with the ecosystem using network available compute power and “produces” tokens for its owner based on the user's help, investments, etc. User of ACME Ltd. pays for the game/NFT/service and receives a non-trainer (or pretrained) NFT avatar that will run in the DeCAVI network - data (model data) on blockchain while the avatar code (training and actions) will run transparently in the network of box-nodes. The user will be able to redeem the avatar produced tokens and further monetize them (such as passive investments) within the game or outside Solar Power Plant Predictive Balancing & Management: another example and potential solution, unrelated to previous gaming project example. In this example we have a project/service provider that aims at offering predictive analytics services for energy grid balancing. Although this example belongs to the core area of DeCAVI founders expertise (safety, predictive analytics, etc) it does not represent a planned step in the internal roadmap. Company SMART Ltd. aims at developing a solution that automatically balances multiple solar power provider energy distribution in various energy networks and end-consumers based on predictive analytics. SMART Ltd. develops a centralized user interface backend that allows solar power plant companies to bid for energy distribution. At the same time a multitude of AI agents are required to predict various aspects such as: (a) individual outputs of the energy provider companies related to global location, weather, etc (b) meta-consumer energy consumption based on location, etc. SMART Ltd. will use DeCAVI ecosystem to easily develop agent-models and deploy them in the DeCAVI network (meta-consumer: city, large company, energy retailer, etc) Each individual solar power provider will have their own set of models (comprising a so-called “plant-agent”) that will offer services for generation prediction, consumption prediction, fault prediction, etc while each group of consumers will be analyzed by another special set of models. The model data will be stored and secured in blockchain while the individual “plant-agents” will run in the decentralized network of box-nodes.

1.9.38. Environment: how about known environment issues usually associated with blockchain?

Our aim is to architect as well as produce and deploy low energy and low carbon footprint edge devices able to collaboratively process jobs that are usually requiring huge amounts of energy and carbon footprint. The collaborative processing is based on the blockchain ecosystem as well as…. Aside from this approach we also look forward to developing further eco-friendly initiatives that will offset the carbon footprint of minted NFTs (usually residing and delivered as ERC-20 or BEP-20 tokens). Carbon-offsetting will be achieved also through CSR activities such as “planting a tree for each box” - that is planting a tree minted security NFT. More information will be provided as we are working on further developing and searching for potential partnerships that will allow us to materialize these plans.

1.9.39. Investment: What are the financial investment options?

Together with the launching of the security smart contract NFTs and the utility token ICO, stacking and liquidity pool mechanisms will be offered for potentially interested investors. These classic electronic coin financial investment approaches will further promote and fuel the usage of the utility token. More information will be provided. While the main rewards generation system will be based on the PoAI consensus the CAVI token will run on ERC20/BEP20/… network based on PoS mechanics and thus allowing staking, liquidity pools and other digital DeFi options.

1.9.40. Founders: Who are the founders?

The founder information can be found [here](../team.md)

1.9.41. Learning, societal, charity & academic support & responsibility

We have multiple options and proposal for network and overall organization social responsibility and giving back to the community: Grants that will allow communities without financial resources to deploy safety systems with focus on: Junior research: College and similar establishments - Programs enabling students and even younger children to develop and experiment with the ecosystem, create their own applications, deploy them on main-net and monetize the proposed ideas Advanced research: University and CS departments in particular where grad students and their instructors and supervisors can engage in advanced projects that would benefit the whole network. Professional research: Research organizations Competitions and hackathons that will enable construction of new dApps in the ecosystem as well as creation of new teams and participants entities

1.9.42. Learning: Will there be casual workshops and learn-to-earn campaigns?

In order to support the growth of our community we will periodically and gradually deploy online workshops that will include small quizzes. Passing the quiz will activate a faucet mechanism and a small amount of CAVI tokens will be delivered to the participants.

1.9.43. Certification: Will there be advanced courses and certifications?

Our plans include the creation of our Academy that will allow partners and even individuals to attend advanced tracks for developing complex applications using our ecosystem. The tracks can also include certification exams that will confer the attendants proof of verified skills and knowledge.
