# What are the two categories of non fungible tokens?

The non fungible tokens are actually divided into two categories: one is a main security token and the other type is a classic NFT minted and directly exchangeable on known exchanges and marketplaces. As already stated the main non fungible token acts directly as a security smart contract: Security tokens are essentially digital, liquid contracts for fractions of any asset that already has value, like real estate, a car, or corporate stock. In our case the main NFTs - i.e. security tokens are tied to a box or a fraction of a fleet of boxes. On the other hand the normal NFTs are created by the company in cooperation with artists as well as using AI generative artwork and rewarded directly for coders, maintainers or even important external stakeholders such as early adopters. The second category of NFT are classic artwork non fungible tokens that have associated put-option mechanics although they do not include any special features such as passive income generation. The put-option like mechanics (the right to sell back to the GTS the owned NFT after a certain anniversary at a given price) are not available for security smart contracts. While the collectible NFTs will be released initially in the roadmap as incentivisation mechanics mainly for the team but also for early adopters, the security smart contracts NFTs will be released later in the roadmap. More about collectible NFTs including the quick roadmap of this initial stage in the Loyalty Tokens section.
