# Acronyms

* **Deep Learning:** particular domain of Artificial Intelligence that use directed acyclic graphs in order to gradually compute various representations of the input in order to infer a conclusion
* **MLOps**: “set of practices that aims to deploy and maintain machine learning models in production reliably and efficiently.\[1] The word is a compound of "machine learning" and the continuous development practice of DevOps in the software field. Machine learning models are tested and developed in isolated experimental systems. When an algorithm is ready to be launched, MLOps is practiced between Data Scientists, DevOps, and Machine Learning engineers to transition the algorithm to production systems". Source: Wikipedia ( [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MLOps](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MLOps) )
* **BFT:** Byzantine Fault Tolerance is a generic algorithmic theory/approach used by most blockchains (even though some in highly advanced and sophisticated versions) stating that in order to approve a transaction/operation a certain number of “witness” participants are required to be in consensus regarding the validity.
* **NFT**: Non Fungible Token - a smart-contract that “lives” in the blockchain and has a certain set of rules and actions programmed in its logic. In our case we use various types of NFTs with emphasis on NFT that act as licensing contracts
* **PoW**: Proof of Work is the energy and commute highly inefficient BFT mechanism that Bitcoin, Ethereum 1.0 and other blockchains use for consensus protocol
* **PoS**: Proof of Stake is a highly compute and energy efficient version of the initial approach of BFT where multiple participants called delegators stake financial support for a validator node - that can be seen as a secure, powerful, well maintained and financially guaranteed miner
* **PoAI**: Proof-of-AI is a utility-oriented and AI-specialized proof-of-work protocol that enables participant nodes of the ecosystem to perform distributed and decentralized jobs and earn rewards.
* **Box-node**: software worker that processes various AI jobs on the edge and is associated with a NFT-based license.
* **Compute-node**: Box-node
* **Oracle**: In blockchain terminology an oracle is an entity that connects real-word data to the blockchain ecosystem. In the Project each individual compute-node that enables safety & security features via its external interfaces (such as video cameras) is in fact considered a _blockchain oracle_.
* **DAO**: a Decentralized Autonomous Organization consists in an ecosystem where multiple participants (private persons or companies) contribute in terms of staking their own financial resources as well as providing value added services. DAOs are governed by all the participants based on their staked funds (using a governance token) similar to the way classic companies are governed by shareholders (owning company shares).
* **AMA**: Ask Me Anything online meeting
* **ICO**: Initial Coin Offering - Represents a way to raise funds. Investors can participate by acquiring an initial cryptocurrency token release amount, which has a clearly stated utility inside the project ecosystem and has been issued by the company, for funding metrics.
