# How secure is the PoAI?

The network of boxes, no matter if we are discussing a private fleet or the global public network, is secured via two different blockchains. Aside from this for training AI models or even inference jobs we are either using end-to-end encryption or Federated Learning methods such as homomorphic encryption that does not require the reconstruction of original data. All scenarios, use cases and each individual job has very strict approaches with respect to private and confidential data obfuscation. No personal data can be reconstructed or traced back to original observations. Basically in the case of distributed training using highly confidential data we have the following general steps that ensure no confidential data is distributed and no model intrinsic information can be used in order to decrypt or understand the data: The “client” participant box-node will both compress and encrypt without the possibility of reconstruction the data with a pre-trained generic private model. For this purpose a database of pre-trained domain specific model is available to provide specific deep encoder models that perform homomorphic encryption while dramatically reducing the dimensionality of required data. Example: a special safety detector might require a model being trained on images of cars that have to comply with specific regulations (such as having specific tire chains in winter time). In this case a distributor box-node will encode using domain encoder high-definition images that have more than 5MB of data with a minimum of \~0.3MB in JPEG format to a 0.002MB - that is just 2048 bytes from the initial size of more than 6,000,000 bytes. Each nearby participant box-node will receive a shard of the efficiently compressed and encrypted data and will train a “homomorphic model” directly on this data. Think of it as a “public model” than can work with public keys (and public data) without knowing the private information. Example continued from previous step: After each model receives their shard - a small piece of the homomorphically encoded and compressed data - the local public model will be optimized using both the labels (obfuscated as simple numbers) and the encrypted observations. All resulting “public models” will be combined in a “aggregated public model” that will be “plugged” in a private model thus creating the final working end-to-end model The whole ecosystem is written in Python and is fully available for auditing purposes.
