# Can you give me some examples of PoAI?

There are a multitude of use cases as well as jobs that can fully rely on the PoAI approach such as: delivering a custom use-case model retraining job from on device to another device in the decentralized network and performing it with Federated Learning techniques, process non-real time jobs such as movie-file analysis for various purposes (blurring, automatic annotating), performing near-real-time inference or prediction for low-bandwidth scenarios such as predictive analytics - time series for example. Many other use cases are currently on the roadmap. For a more concrete example let's have the following case described as a process: Day #1 a customer buys a box and registers it and receives a security smart contract that can be uniquely identified via an address as well as unique NFT design. Depending on the bought hardware/features a number of minimum N running days is established. Day #1 to Day #N - the box node performs default jobs while it also receives remote tasks for the spare compute capacity. The owner of the security smart contract (the NFT) is able to inspect the locked accumulated utility tokens. Day #N - from this day forward both the owner of the NFT as well as the maintainers will be able to receive utility tokens directly into their individual wallets that can be further exchanged via decentralized exchanges swap mechanisms for tokens freely tradable on any exchange. We plan to accelerate the listing of the utility token on the major centralized exchanges so that anyone can buy and sell them and convert to fiat currency. Day #... the owner of the box sells the NFT to another owner for a premium while still using the box-node. At this point all the ownership based rewards will be redeemable by the new NFT owner while the maintainers will continue to receive their own shares - all this if the box-node is properly functioning.
