# How secure is the proposed system?

While the main PoAI capability is that of generating rewards for the participating nodes a secondary and nonetheless important feature is that of ensuring blockchain-based anti-tampering features. Thus, the configuration of each individual box-node as well as job result hashes are recorded in a distributed ledger ensuring that non wrongdoer can tamper with any box configuration - such as disabling an alerting feature - as well as protecting against tampering of historical job results – such as modifying a witness picture or an alert. The practical Byzantine Fault Tolerance (pBFT) approach is used for consensus in order to minimize energy and bandwidth consumption. As a result, the more box-nodes coexist in the ecosystem the more secure the later becomes. Important to note is that we are running on two different blockchains: a private para-chain that is used even in private and VPN blocked environments and a ERC/BEP “on-chain mainnet”. The private para-chain is used to assure the immutability of all ecosystem non-financial transactions such as datasets transfer, job definitions, models, events, node configurations. Each data piece hash, no matter the source of the data, is added to a list of para chain “transactions” together with the signatures of the emitting box-nodes. Distributed off-chain data storages either in box-nodes or client-nodes reference the blocks and hashes in the para-chain in order to ensure that off-chain data storages can be checked for integrity in the private blockchain. Basically each dApp running on the box node blockchain ecosystem will be able to have its own internal database and will have access to the private blockchain API that will ensure its integrity via the network private blockchain. Quick view of the para-chain features & inner workings: Stage 1: Each data transaction, payload, configuration generates a unique hash that is added to the blockchain replicated by each and every box node Stage 2: The blockchain will store high-granularity groups of transactions & ecosystem events
