# Is PoW a “competition” to the PoAI model?

There are multiple aspects to consider with regard to the so-called aspect of competition. There is the societal contribution of the PoW vs PoAI as well as the financial aspects that have to be considered. First of all we need to define a comparison baseline that will easily capture the societal-related difference between the two models: in proof-of-work setting (Bitcoin, Ethereum 1.0, Litecoin, ETC, a.s.o) the participants to the network (i.e. miners) use special software (often open source) that basically cooperatively (at the pool level) as well as competitively compute with brute force hashes of the data in order to be awarded the creation of a new block based on a certain level of difficulty (the hash must comply to a set of rules). Thus the “miners” consume vast amounts of energy for the sole purpose of inefficiently computing hashes in order to secure the network. As already mentioned in the current whitepaper, in Proof-of-AI the participants - at the latest - provision some of their GPU spare compute power in order to process, train, infer or predict using remote and local data and models - thus creating direct value for the society. Advanced use-cases such as automatic data labeling and custom application development further augment the basic uses. Each PoAI participant box-node produces actual value through the performed jobs while ensuring the PoAI network is secured through pBFT. From the standpoint of purely financial gain, the current “mining” options - particularly ETH 1.0 - at the time of this paper creation November-December 2021, are quite profitable when combined with efficient energy sources. Nevertheless, the updated consensus mechanism Proof-of-Stake - that will replace ETH 1.0 current PoW - uses a more organized and slightly aggregated version of the “miner” in the form of a “validator”. The validator, being itself a far more complex software infrastructure than a classic miner, stakes the participants' funds (individuals that stake their own money) in order to guarantee its work and thus presenting more reliability and trust than classic PoW miners - at the end each individual is rewarded based on the “validator-miner” work. The result is reducing the overall network energy requirements by more than 90%. Thus, in the particular case of Ethereum, the transition from the original PoW system to the new ETH 2.0 energy-efficient Proof-of-Stake approach will basically render obsolete more than 50% of the total miners on the planet scale that generate more than 40% of the total cryptocurrency mining revenues. In this context is it highly unlikely that these huge compute power will be able to efficiently and effectively transition to other coins - mostly to the low profitability margin as well due to the ongoing transition of most crypto ecosystems to PoS consensus mechanism - a system that is technologically sound as well as financially clear and environmentally friendly. At this point it is highly likely that in the next 12-18 months most of these miner fleets, at least for the ETH 1.0, but not limited to, will either liquidate the physical assets and/or migrate to ecosystems where GPU computing can yield passive income - such as our own PoAI ecosystem. A rough estimate of active miners - only for ETH 1.0 - is well above 1M workers.
