# Smart Cities: how about them?

The foundation of this project resides in the years of work and experience of our team in the areas of safety, security and predictive analytics based on AI. It is also a fact that we are adding blockchain technology and decentralization ecosystem to an already working environment based on embedded devices running AI/Deep Learning based algorithms. One of the main range of already existing features address safety and security scenarios based on CCTV video streams and more. In Smart City environments our project can achieve two different important objectives: AI use cases and citizen participation both financial and technologically. AI features include optimized and green deployment of a grid of AI powered devices that would enable features like road safety, children areas security and safety, traffic and network balancing forecasting. Citizen participation is probably an even more important aspect: allow Smart City citizens to participate in the distributed grid of AI devices and reward them in the decentralized financial ecosystem. In short the Project will allow the address the following Smart City aspects: Build-in safety and security capabilities, based on a track-record of past projects and experience in the field, will enable deploying a decentralized grid of blockchain secured box-nodes that will be able to acquire classic CCTV signals as well as process other sources of data for various use-cases. Crowd funding the Smart City deployment through citizen participation. The Project will allow citizens to acquire box-nodes and put them to work in the decentralized Smart City grid of box-nodes. Thus, each participant will be able to get rewards from the system and the municipality will be able to crowdsource the project. Basically each participating citizen will be a shareholder of the municipality’s project. Connect, re-invest, finance through the decentralized financial system. Connecting the municipality project to the grid as well as cooperating with other similar smart city projects through sharing of knowledge and methodology will reap decentralized distributed workload for the municipality. The municipality will be able to use the generated tokens to re-invest in extending their own system or in other projects or just use the extra generated revenues in deposits, staking for providing PoS collateral to protocol consensus validator nodes or other methods that will yield annual revenue such as providing liquidity to decentralized exchanges that offer CAVI token swapping.
