# What is the main difference between PoW and PoAI?

The known Proof of Work system, that has the purpose of securing the blockchain both for Bitcoin and Ethereum as well as other alternative blockchains and cryptocurrencies, is basically a “brute-force” approach for “miners” to generate a unique key to secure a new block in the blockchain. Basically the computation does not create any kind of value for a third party and cannot be used to power or employ actions that would generate value. This is basically one of the major flows as well as source of criticism against cryptocurrencies and has been fueling many anti-crypto advocates. The Proof of AI system aims at dramatically changing this paradigm - basically each box-node will be able to act as a real worker producing real valuable results in a decentralized ecosystem based on blockchain. Jobs will be issued both by box-nodes (such as small embedded device box-node that do not have the power to train a complex model and will “ask” another more powerful box to do it) as well as by clients (CAVI). Box-nodes with spare compute power will be able to take the jobs in a round robin manner, execute them and register a reward. Our blockchain based ecosystem includes NFTs in the form of security smart contracts as well as artwork collectible tokens (for collectible tokens see Loyalty Section). Our NFTs, both collectible as well as the utility ones are not based on marketing (or meme-coin) strategies nor are they relying on a FOMO or ponzi-like schemes.
