---
description: How about non-core projects that can be implemented by network participants?
---

# Non-core projects examples

While the core features of the box-nodes are in the area of AI based safety as well as predictive analytics there are other projects that can use (a) decentralized AI/ML/DL infrastructure for deployment, processing, learning, etc, (b) incentivization mechanics. One such relevant and important area is that of blockchain based games where the project team will be able to use the proposed infrastructure for decentralized backend ecosystem while focusing on front-end aspects. More so, we will be encouraging network partners to provide frameworks that will use the existing box-node backends and provide metaverse API where AI-based entities can grow and evolve in the decentralized network for box-nodes - though no Skynet allowed :) !.

**The "AI Society" Game**: _A simple example of non-core new service/project within the ecosystem can be presented in the following steps. Note that this is just for example purposes and does not represent an actual step in our planned roadmap as the gaming industry is not in the focus of DeCAVI founders however other partners can pivot/use this idea._ New network participant ACME Ltd. wants to launch a new AI-based game. In this game each consumer-user has one or more in-game avatars that are freely and un-scripted interacting and evolving - all based on AI training, reinforcement learning and a minimal set of “governance” rules. ACME Ltd. develops the UI front-end of the game (iOs and Android) while working with the AiXPAND framework and constructs the avatar-deployment system where each avatar is an independent model that “lives” in the AiXPAND ecosystem. Basically the avatar continuously interacts with the ecosystem and self-trains itself using network available compute power. All this happens with small "interaction" from the owner - such as buying in-game equipment, boosts and other in-game elements. On the other hand, careful planning and investments will transform into owner-reward meaning the avatar will “produce” tokens for its owner. In short the game monetary inflow is based on the users of ACME Ltd. that pay for the game monthly premium features and avatar-related NFT assets. The user initially receives a untrained (or pretrained if premium fee is paid) NFT avatar that will run in the AiXPAND network - the data (model data) will live on blockchain while the avatar code (training and actions) will run transparently in the network of box-nodes. Obviously, the user will be able to redeem the avatar produced tokens and further use them directly in-game or monetize them (such as passive investments) outside the ecosystem.

**Predictive Stock Replenishment**: _here is another example and potential business/app entirely applicable to AiXPAND , unrelated to previous gaming project example_. _Although this example belongs to the core area of AiXPAND founders expertise (safety, predictive analytics, a.s.o.) it does not represent a planned step in the internal roadmap._ In this example we have a service provider that aims at offering predictive analytics services for retail and distribution industry.  Company SMART Ltd. aims at developing a solution that automatically ingests transaction data from multiple retail and distribution businesses and predicts future demand for various products and services in order to aid operations, marketing and sales teams. SMART Ltd. develops a centralized user interface backend that allows client companies to deliver meta/aggregated or micro-transaction information. In the same time a multitude of AI agents are required to train on each individual client data and predict various aspects such as: (a) category level, product or service level demand forecasting (b) meta-consumer consumption based on multi-dimensional information such as location, weather and other parameters. SMART Ltd. will use AiXPAND ecosystem to easily develop agent-models and deploy them in the AiXPAND network. Each individual client will have their own set of models comprising a so-called “client-AI-agent” that will "live" in the distributed network and will offer forecasting and other analytics capabilities such as customer segmentation report.  Again, the model data will be secured in blockchain while being stored in IPFS while the individual “plant-agents” will run in the decentralized network of box-nodes using secure homomorphic encryption based communication.
